DOC: improve tagging guidelines page (#28527)
matplotlib/matplotlib: doc/devel/document.rst

any ``*.rst`` files to a ``:toctree:``, either in the ``README.txt`` or in a
manual ``index.rst``.

Examples guidelines
-------------------

The gallery of examples contains visual demonstrations of matplotlib features. Gallery
examples exist so that users can scan through visual examples. Unlike tutorials or user
guides, gallery examples teach by demonstration, rather than by explanation or
instruction.

Gallery examples should avoid instruction or excessive explanation except for brief
clarifying code comments. Instead, they can tag related concepts and/or link to relevant
tutorials or user guides.

Format
^^^^^^

All :ref:`examples-index` should aim to follow the following format:

* Title: 1-6 words, descriptive of content
* Subtitle: 10-50 words, action-oriented description of the example subject
* Image: a clear demonstration of the subject, showing edge cases and different

>   applications if possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  applications if possible. Keep it simple but visually appealing.
```

> * Code + Text (optional): code, commented as appropriate + written text to add context
>   if necessary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Code: Focus on the feature to be showcased. Avoid unnecessary fluff (titles, legends, customization, ...) if they do not add to the example. Use comments sparingly for guidance. If more explantion is necessary, put it in a text paragraph above.
```

any ``*.rst`` files to a ``:toctree:``, either in the ``README.txt`` or in a
manual ``index.rst``.

Examples guidelines
-------------------

The gallery of examples contains visual demonstrations of matplotlib features. Gallery
examples exist so that users can scan through visual examples. Unlike tutorials or user
guides, gallery examples teach by demonstration, rather than by explanation or
instruction.

Gallery examples should contain a very brief description of *what* they demonstrate and,
when relevant, *how* it is achieved. Avoid instructions or excessive explanation;
instead, tag with related concepts and cross-link to relevant tutorials or user guides.

Format
^^^^^^

All :ref:`examples-index` should aim to follow these guidelines:

> :Title: Describe content in a short sentence (approx. 1-6 words). Do not use *demo* as

Reviewer: Does sentence imply a full sentence including verb? Possible alternatives: expression, phrase ... (not a native speaker so cannot really judge)

>         this is implied by being an example. Avoid implied verbs such as "creating,
>         making, etc", e.g. "annotated heatmaps" is preferred to "creating annotated

Reviewer: Since we recommend simple present below, let's use that here and not have a second flaw in the example
```suggestion
        this is implied by being an example. Avoid implied verbs such as "create,
        make, etc", e.g. "Annotated heatmaps" is preferred to "Create annotated
```

>         heatmaps". Use the simple present tense when a verb is necessary, e.g. *Fill the
>         area between two curves*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        heatmaps". Use the simple present tense when a verb is necessary, e.g. "Fill the
        area between two curves"
```
Consistent formatting, either all italics or all quoted.

> :Subtitle: In a short paragraph (approx 1-3 sentences) describe what visualization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:Description: In a short paragraph (approx 1-3 sentences) describe what visualization
```
To me, subtitle is at max one sentence, not a paragraph.

           technique is being demonstrated and how library features are used to execute
           the technique, e.g. *Set bar color and bar label entries using the color and
           label parameters of ~Axes.bar*

:Plot: Clearly demonstrate the subject and, when possible, show edge cases and different
       applications. While the plot should be visually appealing, prioritize keeping the
       plot uncluttered.

:Code: Write the minimum necessary to showcase the feature that is the focus of the

>        example. Avoid styling and annotation-such as setting titles, legends, colors,
>        etc.- when it will not improve the clarity of the example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       example. Avoid custom styling and annotations (titles, legends, colors, etc.)
       when it will not improve the clarity of the example.
```

> :Text: Use short comments sparingly to describe what hard to follow parts of code are

Reviewer: This can be a second paragraph in "Code"
```suggestion
       Use short comments sparingly to describe what hard to follow parts of code are
```

       doing. When more context or explanation is required, add a text paragraph before
       the code example.

Example:

> The ``bbox_intersect`` gallery example demonstrates the point of visual examples:
> 
> * this example is "messy" in that it's hard to categorize, but the gallery is the right
>   spot for it because it makes sense to find it by visual search
> * https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/gallery/misc/bbox_intersect.html#sphx-glr-gallery-misc-bbox-intersect-py

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* :doc:`/gallery/misc/bbox_intersect.html` demonstrates the point of visual examples:
  This example is "messy" in that it's hard to categorize, but the gallery is the right
  spot for it because it makes sense to find it by visual search.
```
Optionally, add more examples for different aspects, e.g. an example with a well written title/description or an example producing a nice instructive plot with minimal overhead.
